#### Installation Instructions
Before running our project, a few non-default Python packages need to be installed. The instructions below summarized installation instructions.
1. The package ```bitarray``` needs to be installed in order to utilize bit arrays in the Bloom Filter
2. The package ```Pympler``` needs to be installed to run deep recursive space tests
3. The package ```Matplotlib``` needs to be installed to create plots of data
4. The package ```mmh3``` needs to be installed to get random hash functions. In our experience mmh3 still doesn't work even after installation on Windows Computers. To fix this problem we needed to download VisualStudio BuildTools, which mmh3 relies on. To download BuildTools, go to this link https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#build-tools-for-visual-studio-2017 and search for "Build Tools for Visual Studio 2019". Then, run the executable file that is downloaded, and when prompted, make sure to select "C++ Build Tools" in the download options. For the Windows users in our group, after downloading build tools, mmh3 ran properly. Note that Mac users in our group did not need to download build tools.

#### Project Description
- The ```src``` folder contains all code related to data structures, data analysis, and union/intersection algorithms.
- The ```Figures``` folder contains plots/graphs that we created using methods in the ```analysis``` folder. More instructions about running analysis methods are in the section below.
- The ```tests``` folder contains unit tests for our Set data structures

#### Generating the figures submitted in the final paper
The only Python file that should actually be run for analysis is ```main.py```, which is found in ```src/analysis```. This file calls functions that are in ```data_analysis_ecoli.py``` and ```data_analysis_hiv.py``` to populate data structures and create figures/graphs. All methods that should be called are already contained in ```main.py``` and commented out. Thus, to run one of these tests, simply uncomment its method. Each of the functions and what they test are described in ```main.py```, but more details about their implementation can be found in the method descriptions in ```data_analysis_ecoli.py``` and ```data_analysis_hiv.py```.

**Note**: In order to email our code, we needed to remove the E. Coli genomes from our data folder. However, any of the methods in ```data_analysis_hiv.py``` will still work. It is most likely impractical for graders to test methods in ```data_analysis_ecoli.py``` anyway, as any of those methods need 7+ hours to run. However, note that as the HIV genome is relatively short, the HIV data analysis methods run fairly quickly, in 1-2 minutes max. 

#### Running the unit tests
For those interested, unit tests may be run on our data structures (bloom filters, counting filters, and hashsets). These can be found in the ```tests``` folder. To run the unit tests, enter the following from the command line: ```python -m unittest tests/test_hashset.py```, where ```test_hashset.py``` can be replaced with the name of any of the unit test file names.

#### Determining if a test strains k-mer is common across many strains
One of the goals in our project was to identify what regions of a test strain are uncommon across many different strains. The function ```mark_test_strain_kmers``` in ```src/analysis/data_analysis_hiv.py``` can do this for us. The function takes in an individual k-mer and the number of intersections. To correctly call and use this function, one would need to split a test strain into its k-mers and keep track of which k-mers returned common (true) and which k-mers returned not-common (false). The user would call the function by with the following code: ```mark_test_strain_kmers(k-mer, intersections)```. The number of intersections is something the user will need to specify. They should keep in mind that as the intersections go up, the similarity of the test strain to the database of k-mers goes down. After looping through all the k-mers of a test-strain, a user can use the collective results to approximate which k-mers account for regions of the genome that are likely to be results of high mutations, i.e. those k-mers that return false and thus are not common k-mers across strains. One can call this function with their own strain or they can call mark_test_strain_default() to get a dictionary with common and uncommon k-mers of our test strain.
